There is a lot of opportunity in key contributions for a
technical BA regarding the product owner.
Let's check that out.
So why does the product owner need your help?
Well, every product owner is different and unique.
Product owners are very busy and are focused on the business and may
not be available or able to allocate enough time.
Not all product owners have the skills to fill the role of the product owner,
and you must coach and guide the product owner to fulfill his or her role.
In one case I observed the IT organization paired up a
technical business analyst with each product owner.
This was immensely successful in providing high-quality requirements,
backlog development, and prioritization.
Product owners may be unfamiliar with writing epics and user stories,
and quite frankly may be unfamiliar because,
well, they're running a business.
Again,
the technical BA is effectively contributing and bridging the gap
between the business and the agile dev team.
I strongly encourage you to take every opportunity to work
very closely with your product owner.
Here are two options I would like you to consider.
You could be the proxy to the product owner.
A proxy is someone who has the authority to represent someone else,
such as a representative, substitute or delegate.
The other option is to partner with the product owner.
Okay, now let's examine each one.
Let's talk about you, the technical BA, being the proxy of a product owner.
The product owner proxy role is appropriate for the technical BA.
I have seen it work in action,
provided the proxy is empowered and supported to act
on behalf of the product owner.
This is very important.
Now,
how they are empowered and delegated authority to act in behalf
of the product owner is important as well.
Hence, clearly and succinctly delegate authority.
The product owner must communicate in writing or verbally,
or in a presentation format.
Also,
the product owner attends the agile project kickoff meeting to ensure all
parties understand the role and authority of the technical business
analyst and answer and address any questions.
This shows that the product owner's authority is being given to you.
Now, product owners are very busy and are focused on the business,
and may not be available to play the role of product owner.
And what if the product owner had two or three projects running concurrently?
There's just not enough time in the day.
So having a proxy role may be a very viable option for the technical BA.
The other option is where you partner with the product owner.
The product owner fulfills the product owner role completely,
and the technical BA as his or her partner will provide support,
such as technical analysis support.
Also,
the technical business analyst works with the product owner and other key
business experts to clarify requirements and user stories.
Executives and senior managers will typically describe
requirements in large and fuzzy epics,
and hence performing more analysis to provide more granular epics
and user stories is essential to perform analysis to validate
priorities as set by the product owner.
And lastly, represent the product owner in the agile project,
release, and sprint planning activities.
But this should be limited and rare since you are not a proxy,
but instead filling in at times for the product owner if necessary if
there are scheduling conflicts and things like that.
In either the proxy or partner role there are
similarities to your technical BA activities.
I may have already touched on a few, but I want to emphasize them here again.
Not all product owners have the skills to do analysis or to write user stories,
and so you must coach and guide the product owner to fulfill his or her role.
I tried this approach,
this was immensely successful in providing
high-quality requirements to the backlog.
Deliver core analysis artifacts, such as process,
impact, stakeholder, and enterprise analyses.
Now,
while the product owner is focused on their customer
and the new product requirements, you can be focused on process diagrams,
identifying missing stakeholders, managing scope,
identifying backlog items, and anything else that may have been overlooked.
Product owner availability.
The product owner should be focused on funding,
working with customers, meeting with senior leadership as they should be.
So your role then is to be available to the agile dev team and to be
fully competent in the product owner's vision,
product backlog, and business intentions of the user stories.
Once again, your role is to be fully competent in the product owner's vision,
The analyst can actively help manage the product backlog with the agile team.
Identify and validate product priorities with the agile team.
Identify and refine epics and user stories with the agile team.
Build on relationships with business stakeholders,
customers or end users of the ultimate solution.
And lastly,
help bridge the gap between the product backlog and the
technical realities of the project.
I have seen that the dev team is quite technology-focused and
may not always have the bandwidth to spend that extra time
with the product owner as you can.
As I hope you can see,
the technical BA can actively manage and support the
delivery of value to the project.
But of the two options I have presented,
I do like the partner approach a little better and I
think it typically works best.
Either one will work with the right people, the right attitudes, and with the right communication.